DOCS-10673-aggregators-troubleshooting-kt (#1450)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-troubleshooting.adoc

= Troubleshoot Aggregators Module - Mule 4

> To troubleshoot Aggregators module, become familiar with the information about app logs, enabling verbose logging, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Reviewer: the...module
```suggestion
To troubleshoot the Aggregators module, become familiar with the information about app logs, enabling verbose logging, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.
```

== Use the Latest Aggregators Module Version

> To ensure that you use the latest patches, update the Aggregator module to the latest version. In the Apache Maven `pom.xml` file generated by Anypoint Studio replace `x.x.x` with the version that corresponds to the latest version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that you use the latest patches, update the Aggregator module to the latest version. In the Apache Maven `pom.xml` file generated by Anypoint Studio, replace `x.x.x` with the version that corresponds to the latest version:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.mule.modules</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-aggregators-module</artifactId>
  <version>x.x.x</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

To obtain the most up-to-date `pom.xml` file information:

. Go to https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange].
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for `aggregators`.
. Select the connector.
. Click *Dependency Snippets* near the upper right of the screen.

== Enable Verbose Logging

To begin troubleshooting Aggregator module, enable verbose logging to see the exact error messages:

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.

> . Open your application's project name.

Reviewer: You don't "open" a name, so use either "open your app project" or "click your app project's name."

> . Open the `src/main/resources` path folder.

Reviewer: Is this a "path folder" or just a "folder"?

. Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.
. If the following line is already in the `log4j2.xml` file, uncomment it to enable it; otherwise, add it:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.extension.aggregator" level="DEBUG"/>
----
+
[start=6]
. Save your changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the messages in the logger.

== Understand the Timeout Behavior in the Size-Based Aggregator

> For Size based Aggregator, timeout is the maximum timeout that the aggregation is expected to complete. When the timeout is reached, it does not mean that it is considered complete, but that the waiting time has passed and the aggregation is reset.

Reviewer: I looked this up, and I see it capitalized all sorts of ways, but a "size-based aggregator" is a thing that is not unique to MuleSoft, so I would lowercase it in plain narrative use:
```suggestion
For a size-based aggregator, the timeout value represents is maximum time during which the aggregation is expected to finish. Reaching the timeout value does not mean that aggregation is considered complete, but that the waiting time has passed and the aggregation is reset.
```

> For the *Size based aggregator*, the *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements is equal to the value set in the *Max size* field, the aggregation is not considered complete. The wait time passed and the aggregation is reset. Take into account that you can use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture the aggregated values when giving timeout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For *Size based aggregator*, the *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to finish. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements is equal to the value set in the *Max size* field, the aggregation is not considered complete. The wait time passed and the aggregation is reset. Take into account that you can use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture the aggregated values when giving timeout.
```
"when giving timeout"? What does that mean? Do you mean you can capture the values before the aggregation is reset? To what purpose?

Reviewer: See Style Ref. re. use of the term "complete."

> == Make Sure You Are Not in a Multiple Worker Setting

Reviewer: This is a sentence, not a label, as a title should be. Actually, this is not really a topic but rather a requirement of aggregator use that should be provided at the beginning of the text about using aggregators. I'll copyedit, but I think it belongs elsewhere.

> Do not use aggregators with multiple workers and a persistent Object Store because clustering is not available in CloudHub. For details on how workers can be shared or doubled to scale your application and provide high availability, see the xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub-fabric.adoc[CloudHub Fabric]documentation.

Reviewer: If clustering is not available in CloudHub, doesn't it stand to reason that you would not have multiple workers? I'm not sure that this first sentence makes sense, how the first part is explained by the second. Copyedit only:
```suggestion
Do not use aggregators with multiple workers and a persistent object store, because clustering is not available in CloudHub. For details on how workers can be shared or doubled to scale your application and provide high availability, see the xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub-fabric.adoc[CloudHub Fabric] documentation.
```

== Understand Common Throws

Here is a list of common throw messages and how to interpret them:

For *Size based aggregator*:

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG

>   The Max size or Timeout fields have invalid values, for example, Max size < 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The *Max size* or *Timeout* fields have invalid values, for example, *Max size* is less than zero.
```

Reviewer: ...or "...*Max size* is `<0`, depending on whether you are referring to the syntax or the meaning.

* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS

  An error occurred during an attempt to access the object store used to store the aggregated values.

For *Time based aggregator*:

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG

>   The Period or Max size fields have invalid values, for example, Period = 0.

Reviewer: ditto edits Line 67

* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS

  An error occurred during an attempt to access the object store used to store the aggregated values.

> For *Time based aggregator*:

Reviewer: Remove; included at Line 73.
```suggestion
```

* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_COMPLETED

  An error occurred during an attempt to add a new element to an already completed group that was not yet evicted.

* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_TIMED_OUT

>   An error occurred during an attempt to add a new element to a group that timed out, and the group was not yet evicted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An error occurred during an attempt to add a new element to a group that timed out but had not yet been evicted.
```

* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_ID

>   The expression that resolves to the group ID returns null.

Reviewer: a null value or `null`?

* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_SIZE

>   The expression that resolves to the group size returns null.

Reviewer: ditto Line 95

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG

>  The Group size or Timeout fields have invalid values, for example, &#96;groupSize&#96; < 0.

Reviewer: ditto Line 67
